---
title: This site
date: '2024-02-22'
image: Sveltekiticon.png 
---

I have been curious since I was really young. I got my first computer given to me by my Uncle when I was 6 years old on Christmas day. Ever since 5th grade and especially during quarantine, I found my hobby: programming. I first started out making windows apps and roblox games during google meets and messing around with my computer.

I then moved onto web development with the basics of html, and js. I kind of skipped learning css and I regret that because I really need to get better at css. Html is not a programming language but more of a design language, to describe elements. CSS is kinda not a language too, but what it does is  styling and animation, and positioning of the elements you describe in your html, and Javascript is an actual programming language. After learning the basics of those languages I went to learn about linux and server administration. I’ve been messing with linux for around 4.5 years now and gotten super good at almost everything linux. I even moved my main os from windows to linux and got more performance in games.

I normally use linux in my servers for databases. Making databases is kind of simple as all you do is describe what you are editing, adding, or deleting in a language called SQL. The databases I normally go with are MariaDB( a fork of mysql) and Postgresql. For the OS I normally use debian linux which is a stable and popular linux distro, or Arch linux which is kind of stable but more bleeding edge and fast. 

Now today I’ve tried to see what field of programming I like best. I’ve found that I really like making my own infrastructure and that is why this website is self-hosted on a Raspberry Pi Zero 2 (running void linux) going through a reverse proxy on an arch linux machine. I also really love messing with databases and making an api work. The main languages I’m currently interested in right now are Rust and Javascript. Javascript is pretty boring. It’s used in the web on any website and is the most popular language right now. Rust isn't boring. I've been messing with rust on a Raspberry Pi Pico (RP2040) and the ESP32 (esp-wroom-32) and it has been fun. Rust is a low level language like C++ but with all the things I hate about C++ removed. It doesn’t have a garbage collector unlike javascript and has something called the barrow checker. I'm not gonna move too deep into that but rust is a fast and great programming language.

This website is made using Sveltekit, in javascript people have made frameworks to make building websites easier and better for the user. Using frameworks now websites can use components to have things like a navbar or a footer better to implement rather than putting the same elements on every html file. Frameworks also make reactivity a thing so when a user interacts with something the website will rerender. I’ve chosen to use SvelteKit as it's called a meta framework. Meta frameworks have things like an api, routing, among other things. It gives a framework a lot more features and is better for almost any website. The source of this website is available on github through the github icon on your top right of the screen. Check it out if you can and make pull requests if you see any issues
